# SML-312
Final project for SML 312 at Princeton University. 
This project attempts to model California’s unemployment in 2010 at the Census tract and county levels. It seeks to accomplish three goals: (1) to model unemployment among the population of civilians in the labor force who are older than 16 years old, (2) to understand potential differences in unemployment patterns at the Census tract versus county level, and (3) to assess whether Census tracts are an appropriate geographic representation of local job markets. The project utilizes data from the 2010 American Community Survey and the United States Census of Agriculture. Linear, polynomial, and Lasso regression models were trained, cross-validated on 10-folds, and tested on Census tract and county data. The best model for Census tract data was a Lasso regression model with alpha equals one and polynomial degrees of two. The best model for the county level data was a Lasso regression model with alpha equals 1000 and polynomial degrees of two. Models trained on Census tract and county data were also tested on county and Census tract data, respectively. The model for the county level was more successful (r-squared of 97.2% at the county level versus 54.8% at the Census tract level) due to the large amount of scatter in the Census tract data. We find that models were not generalizable to the geographic level they were not trained on; this is an example of ecological fallacy. Because it is difficult to create a model at the Census tract level with the features we selected, we suggest that tracts should not yet be used as geographic representations of local job markets. Future data science projects could explore other features that might better capture the large amount of variation in unemployment at the Census tract level. It would also be fruitful to explore whether the ecological fallacy continues to exist for these features between the Census tract and the county levels. 
